# C model for the lift generation of an airfoil

## Introduction

This solution describes a C model for the lift generation of an airfoil using Bernoulli's equation.

The Bernoulli equation has been used to create a simple model of lift generation of an airfoil as a function of the airfoil’s geometry, the pressure, density, and velocity of fluid around the airfoil, and other parameters such as elevation. Other parameters included are the wind speed as calculated by a Pitot tube, ambient temperature, humidity, and elevation to determine the value of air density at the given elevation.

This C language based model has been tested on the Signaloid Cloud Developer Platform. This model uses the LibUncertain API to allow the model to interact with the uncertainty-tracking Signaloid C0 processor to inject distributions for those model parameters which are uncertain.

Refer to the below section for a quick reference to Bernoulli's equation.

## Bernoulli's equation

Bernoulli's equation is a fundamental principle in fluid dynamics that relates the pressure, velocity, and elevation of a fluid flowing along a streamline. Bernoulli's equation can be written as:

> Lift force generated on an airfoil = Lift Coefficient \* Chord Length \* Airfoil Length \* 0.5 \* Air Density \* Wind Speed \* Wind Speed;

Where:

- Lift coefficient (Cl) is a dimensionless quantity that relates the lift generated by an airfoil or a wing to the dynamic pressure and other factors.

- Chord length is defined as the straight-line distance between the leading edge and the trailing edge of the airfoil.

- Airfoil lenght is the length of the Airfoil.

- Air density refers to the mass of air per unit volume and is determined by factors such as temperature, pressure, and humidity.

- Wind speed plays a crucial role in determining the pressure distribution and airflow characteristics around an airfoil or a fluid flow system.

## Repository Tree Structure

The repository contains a simple model implementing the lift generation of an airfoil based on the Bernoulli equation based on C language.

```
.
├── README.md
└── src
|   └── lift_gen.c
├── .gitignore
├── LICENSE

```

## Weblinks

> Signaloid Developer Platform (https://signaloid.io/home)
